UCSD CSE Faculty Analyzes Map of Human Variation in Collaboration with
National Library of Medicine Feature

CSE professor Eleazar Eskin and his graduate students, along with
researchers at the International Computer Science Institute, have used
a software algorithm to quickly break down large amounts of genetic
information--from genotypes to happlotypes--in an attempt to more
accurately study genetic differences. The research was conducted on
the biotech repository of the National Center of Biotechnology
Information (NCBI), and effectively resulted in the dubling of the
repository's data. "The speed with which we are able to compute the
entire dbSNP database of genotypes is a combination of the speed of
our algorithm and the computational resources that allowed us to do it
so quickly," explained Eskin. "We have demonstrated that haplotype
phasing can be done routinely every time there is a new releese of
data deposited in the NCBI database." More information about these
research findings can be found here.

Upcoming Events

CSE Building Dedication

The Computer Science & Engineering Building dedication was a success!
Along with the building's formal opening, the Jacobs School
Commemorative Parver Program and Bear, the 16th commissioned sculpture
for the UCSD Stuart Collection, were also unveiled. For a recap of all
the activities, please click here; our brochure has more information
about the department.

CSE's Database Group Publishes Six Sigmod/Pods Papers

A record six papers authored by members of the Database group were
presented at ACM Sigmod/Pods 2005, the top conference in the database
area. To find out more about the research presented at this preeminent
conference, click here.

VLSI Researchers Recieve ICCD's Best Paper Award

Andrew Kahngg, his post-doc Bao Liu, and Ph.D candidate Qinke Wang
(pictured), were awarded the Best Paper Award at this year's ACM/IEEE
International Conference on Computer Design (ICCD) for their paper
"Supply Voltage Degradation Aware Analytical Placement". The Award was
one of five selected from a pool of 310 submissions.

UCSD Hosts Student Programming Contest

Forty-four students participated in this year's fall 2005 Programming
Contest. Student were given five hours to solve seven traditional
algorithmic problems. Top honors went to Renshan Wang, who was the
only student to successfully solve all seven problems! Nakul Verma,
Nitay Joffe, Boris Babenko, and Thomas Petrillo each solved five
problems. The contest served as UCSD's qualifying tournament for the
ACM Southern California Programming Contest. The problems, solutions,
pictures, and detailed results can be found here .  spacer UCSD Hosts
Student Programming Contest

CSE Professor Collaborates on Wireless Research Project

CSE professor Tajana Simunic Rosing is taking part in a wireless
sensor project to build better tools for managing resources in
heterogeneous wireless sensor networks. The research is in conjuction
with and will aid HPWREN, an NSF-funded project whose expressed goal
is to create and evaluate a high-performance, wide-area, wireless
network in San Die go, Riverside, and Imperial counties. Simunic Rosing
is an expert in resource management of embedded wireless systems, and
joined CSE in 2004 after six years at Hewlett Packard. HPWREN (High
Performance Wireless Research and Education Network) is a
multi-institutional UC San Diego research program. The full article
resides here.

CSE Grad Student Writes Synchronization Program

Frustrated by keeping track of multiple versions of a file across
several machines, Ph.D. candidate James Anderson created a program
that allows a user to save a file on one machine and have it updated
automatically on other devices, including desktop PCs, laptops,
personal digital assistants, or even third-generation cell phones. His
work was funded by Gogle's Summer of Code, an effort to promote
open-source software by motivating students to create new code for
open-source access. Transparent Synchronization, or Tsync, keeps a set
of files consistent across many machines, even if those devices
involve differing degrees of connectivity and availability. "It does
so while requiring minimal effort from the user," added Anderson. "At
the same time it maintains security, robustness to failure, and fast
performance." The full article may be found here.

Intel Donation Fosters Medded Systems Education

Intel has donated microprocessor development kits valued at $193,638
to UCSD's Computer Science and Engineering department. The kits are
full, high-end embedded systems platforms, and can be used for any
embedded processing applications. They will equip CSE research and
training labs, initially for a senior-level project course on wireless
multimedia embedded systems. The donation was made in response to a
grant written by CSE professors Rajesh Gupta and Tajana Simunic
Rosing. To read the full Jacobs School press release, click here.

Source: http://www.cse.ucsd.edu/

Misspellings added and converted to text for CSE 130 class 
by Wiliam Mathews (wgmatthews@cs.ucsd.edu)

